# Start or Stop the Services

These commands you must know when you using the LNMP of Websoft9

### Nginx

```shell
sudo systemctl start nginx
sudo systemctl stop nginx
sudo systemctl restart nginx
sudo systemctl status nginx
```

### PHP-FPM
```shell
systemctl start php-fpm
systemctl stop php-fpm
systemctl restart php-fpm
systemctl status php-fpm
```

### MySQL

```shell
sudo systemctl start mysql
sudo systemctl stop mysql
sudo systemctl restart mysql
sudo systemctl status mysql
```

### Redis
```shell
sudo systemctl start redis
sudo systemctl stop redis
sudo systemctl restart redis
sudo systemctl status redis
```

### Tomcat
```shell
sudo systemctl start tomcat
sudo ssystemctl stop tomcat
sudo ssystemctl restart tomcat
sudo ssystemctl status nginx
```
